DOC clearer definition of estimator to be used in last step of a pipeline (#26952)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/compose.rst

Pipelines and composite estimators
==================================

> To build a composite estimator, transformers are usually combined with other
> transformers or with :term:`predictors` (such as classifiers or regressors).
> The most common tool used for this is a :ref:`Pipeline <pipeline>`. Pipelines
> without a final predictor will transform the observed data (:term:`X`) and
> return it. In contrast, pipelines with a final predictor will fit the predictor
> with the transformed data from the previous steps and can then also be used for
> predictions. The methods to be called on the pipeline are the same methods that
> the estimator in the last step provides. Pipeline is often used in combination
> with :ref:`FeatureUnion <feature_union>` which concatenates the output of
> transformers into a composite feature space. :ref:`TransformedTargetRegressor

Reviewer: I think this better reflects what a pipeline accepts and does:

```suggestion
To build a composite estimator, transformers are usually combined with other
transformers or with :term:`predictors` (such as classifiers or regressors).
The most common tool used for this is a :ref:`Pipeline <pipeline>`. Pipelines
require all steps except the last to be a :ref:`transformer`. The last step can
be anything, a transformer, a :term:`predictor`, or a classifier which might
have or not have a `.predict(...)` method. The pipeline would then expose all
methods provided by the last estimator, meaning if the last step provides a
`transform` method, then the pipeline would have a `transform` method and
behave like a transformer. If the last step provides a `predict` method, then
the pipeline would also expose that method, and given a data :term:`X`, it uses
all steps except the last to transform the data, and then give that transformed
data to the `predict` method of the last step of the pipeline. `Pipeline` is
often used in combination with :ref:`Column Transformer <column_transformer>`
or :ref:`FeatureUnion <feature_union>` which concatenate the output of
transformers into a composite feature space. :ref:`TransformedTargetRegressor
```

Author: Yes, I fully agree.

Pipelines and composite estimators
==================================

To build a composite estimator, transformers are usually combined with other
transformers or with :term:`predictors` (such as classifiers or regressors).
The most common tool used for this is a :ref:`Pipeline <pipeline>`. Pipelines

> require all steps except the last to be a :ref:`transformer`. The last step can

Reviewer 2: I suspect that this is causing the Sphinx warning that makes the circle CI doc fail with the following message:

```
doc/modules/compose.rst:8: WARNING: undefined label: 'transformer' 
```
https://output.circle-artifacts.com/output/job/2189993c-3da9-4db8-809b-bf4564864bcd/artifacts/0/doc/_changed.html

```suggestion
require all steps except the last to be a :term:`transformer`. The last step can
```

Author: I see, thank you.

> be anything, a transformer, a :term:`predictor`, or a classifier which might

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be anything, a transformer, a :term:`predictor`, or a clustering estimator which might
```

==================================

Transformers are usually combined with classifiers, regressors or other

> :term:`predictors` to build a composite estimator. The most common tool is a

Reviewer 3: I like the new paragraph. It is easier to read and is still correct. Getting this right is not easy, at least I had to go and read the definitions of estimator, predictor, etc and then think to figure out if it was correct or not!

I find the start of the first sentence hard to read. What do you think of starting with the end "To build a composite estimator ...."?

Another question: would it be correct to say "... combined with classifiers, regressors, other predictors or estimators to build a composite estimator"? The reason I'm asking is that if I want to make a composite estimator that is a transformer, then I don't need a predictor as the last step no? The model I'm starting to form in my head is that the type of the composite estimator is equal to the type of the final step in the pipeline. Is that useful as a mental model?

Author: @betatim Thanks for your review. Your thoughts helped me to clarify how to communicate this. I've changed how to start the first sentence and found some words to express, that Pipeline would also combine two transformers, and what the type of the pipeline then would be.

This is the result:
```
To build a composite estimator, transformers are usually combined with other
transformers or with :term:`predictors` (such as classifiers or regressors).
The most common tool used for this is a :ref:`Pipeline <pipeline>`. Pipelines
without a final predictor will fit and transform the observed data (:term:`X`)
and return it. In contrast, pipelines with a final predictor will fit the
predictor with the transformed data from the previous steps and can then also
be used for predictions. The methods to be called on the pipeline are the same
methods that the last contained estimator provides.
```

What do you think?

Reviewer 3: I like it!
